Gideon Levy is a columnist at Hart's
newspaper and author of the punishment
of Gaza he's joining us live from Tel
Aviv always a pleasure to have you with
us on Al jazer Mr Levy thank you for
your time um what are the Americans
trying to do when they repeat the same
lines about a ceasefire without using
the levers that could lead to one why do
they do the same thing but expect
different
results I think it's only an outcome of
total Despair and and lack of cap
ability to do something there's no other
explanation I mean they are pulling it
and pulling it for weeks now and months
claiming that the the settlement is just
around the corner the deal will be
signed the deal is almost agreed 90%
95% knowing that prime minister of
Israel Benjamin nany has no intention to
go for a ceas fire now knowing that the
Gap is much too big I really I want
wonder do they really want to put an end
to this war the Americans because if yes
they know very well what they should do
and if no why they bother us with all
those declarations and and efforts which
are totally in vain well why do you
think they are doing this
then I guess as usually it has to do
also with domestic politics they don't
want a confrontation right now with with
Israel and without the confrontation it
will not work as simple as this they
have the leverage in their hand but they
don't want to use it by the way they
never used it it's not like it's only in
in campaign times that they don't use it
they never used the leage on Israel it
was always a hollow hollow threats and
Hollow advises without using any
leverage on Israel but now when Israel
depends so much on the United States
it's quite bizarre that they don't use
at least partially at least condition
the aid condition the support with some
kind of conditions nothing just Hollow
declarations yeah and that's something
that uh both major parties in the United
States have made it clear is that
they're not going to condition military
military aid if we look at the different
pressure points that either the United
States or Israel face are the protests
that taking place in Israel are they
putting any pressure on the
government unfortunately not that I
would even say not at all this is not
the political base of Mr
Netanyahu and it doesn't cross it
doesn't penetrate into his political
camp and as long as this does not happen
and as long as the protest is as polite
as it is don't expect any influence he
can totally ignore this protest and I
say a lot of sorrow and appreciation to
the those who go to protest devoted and
and
really aiming for the good but they have
they have no influence on this
government and what does all of this you
know when we talk about what's happening
in Gaza the lack of the ceasefire the
lack of impact from these protests how
much is it emboldening the Israeli
government to continue on its current
whether it's in Gaza or in the West
Bank this government is much more solid
than one would expect after such a
fiasco like on the 7th of October and
it's much more solid than most of Israel
governments they can last for long time
and you mention Gaza but I would like to
pay the attention that by the time we
are talking about Gaza and talking about
hisbah the West Bank is now the next
Arena and what Israel is doing there
will soon be failed because Israel
really went to a to a an aggressive
campaign in tar in Janine in other
places the settlers went wild the the
West Bank that's at least the place that
I can still visit the West Bank looks
worse than ever with the checkpoints
with the horrible econom iCal situation
with the killings with using the Air
Force like never before they never used
the Air Force in the West Bank to kill
people so all
together creates a very very depressing
picture and not less than this is
depressing the passiveness of the United
na of the United States Mr Levy uh we
thank you as always for your analysis
gide and Levy in Tel Aviv
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer